[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neon
newday.com I'm your host Dylan Grabowski
in this episode of the smart economy
podcast I had the chance to sit down and
speak with Patrick McCurley the CEO and
co-founder of decent da decent da is a
builder Collective creating da Defi and
other web3 toolings and services for
institutional and Retail clients topics
of discussion included how open- Source
communities can educate and Empower
individuals why teams should build on
top of blockchain networks lessons
learned from running a business through
multiple boom bust Cycles decent Dows
product offerings and much more just a
reminder nothing said on this podcast is
a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
Financial advice and that the guests or
hosts May hold tokens discussed in any
given episode to check out our
disclaimers on tokens and assets held
head over to
www.newsday.com with all that said I
really enjoyed this conversation with
Parker and I hope you enjoy it as well
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we're joined by
Parker McCurley the co-founder and CEO
of decent da which is a web three
Venture Studio how you doing today
Parker I'm doing great thanks so much
for having me Dylan how are you I'm
doing great uh really excited to have
this conversation with you you have a
really interesting background um it was
fun digging into kind of where you've
come from and where you're going uh
you're a hustler and I'm excited to talk
more about that uh but before we kind of
jump into you know where you're come
where you come from I do want to just
ask really quickly uh so that the
listeners can kind of get a sense of who
you are you've been around since 2017 so
I just want to ask um what have you
learned with decent Dao uh about the
biggest lessons in crypto basically and
surviving multiple Bull and bare Cycles
it's no easy feat so I just kind of want
to hear what General insights you have
before we jump into the conversation
definitely and uh that's a great that's
a great question to start this
conversation Dylan so thank you um yeah
I mean I've definitely seen seen a lot
of Boom bus Cycles in crypto um I mean
even before I worked in the industry
there were these times of like expansion
of the ideas and philosophies of Bitcoin
and kind of like what that could be used
for um and it's never been yeah like a
clean or steady growth uh for
cryptocurrency it's been and like yeah
lots of Rapid expansion and accelerated
growth and you know generally like a
hangover period or a crypto winner is we
kind of have affection begun to call it
um yeah I guess for me what's been the
most interesting was like when we first
started eent in 2017 there was a lot of
stuff that Adam my co-founder and I like
didn't really understand like we would
see these like websites and promotions
for things that people were building on
ethereum during like the Ico bubble and
uh there was all this stuff that just
seemed to be like over our heads it just
didn't make sense to us and we were like
how are people actually building this
like doesn't this like not actually make
sense and what we found out by 2019 was
that none of the stuff was over our
heads it just like actually didn't make
sense um it was like a bunch of
and a lot of hype and storytelling to
cash in on what people thought was like
a good investment opportunity in a time
where pretty much everybody was making
money in the whole world right um so you
know that was like confidence building
and nonetheless you know crypto winter
for for us was really difficult like we
went from having no business experience
to building a small team to having a
bunch of clients to having no clients
like we're saying you know a year and a
half or so um so what we ended up doing
uh differently in the next growth cycle
which was like D5 summer really um we
chose to like I don't know I think grow
like pretty intelligently like we knew
like salaries were really high and
everybody was hiring and nobody was
looking for jobs and I saw these
companies that were hiring like so many
people with these crazy high salaries
because we were competing with these big
companies like coinbase to hire people
um during that bull run and we sort of
had like a controlled growth effort and
as a result um in
2022 when you know the musical chair
stock um we were in like a really good
position and we had also just raised a
bunch of venture capital because we had
anticipated a market recession and that
like it would be really helpful to have
more gunpowder for those times so I
think we've just learned how to prepare
over the years and to not not get too
ahead of ourselves and everyone who gets
over inflated during the Bull Run has a
really bad bear you know yeah I think
that's um an awesome response I was
really excited to hear particularly
because I myself uh came into the space
in the 2017 craze and went full-time
during the first bear so I know kind of
firsthand what it's like to to go
through these cycles and now I've gone
through my second up down cycle so as a
company it's just really exciting to
hear a surviving and what the survival
tactics were uh but B how you guys also
deployed those Lessons Learned and it
sounds really interesting that you were
able to Garner some venture capital in a
year when it was starting to dry up so
congratulations to that and that kind of
leads into why I was really excited to
chat with you because you're a hustler
you have a really interesting background
in the sense that you kind of
self-actualized into a developer and
then into owning a or co-owning a
venture in the crypto and blockchain
space so your kind of entrepreneurial
background goes back to your college
days when you were working multiple gigs
you had um a side hustle where you were
fixing computers and this is kind of
maybe when you first came about um like
crypto and blockchain and things like
that so could we start off the combo
with just hearing a little bit about
your your early days and and how you got
started on this path uh largely through
the Entre entrepreneurial decisions you
made early on yeah definitely um yeah I
didn't spend much time in college or
School in general for that part but yeah
like my my entrepreneurial Journey uh I
guess kind of began when I was like a
kid or like I guess like my early teen
years I mean I started working pretty
young um I had a lot of help an example
from my parents to the that just
instilled like a really strong work
ethic in me and but you know in high
school I always had jobs in the summer I
usually did stuff outside like
construction or trade type work and
during the school year I worked at
restaurants and uh but every time I had
a job growing up I was always sort of
like the goal was to like invest it in
something of my own and so I tried all
kinds of stuff in high school just to
like make money um and and yeah the
thing that kind of stuck out in terms of
like it actually like seemed to like
have to pay enough for me to like pay my
bills and stuff was the technical stuff
with computers which like I really never
you know when I was a kid I mean I
always loved computers but I never once
imagine that that was like my like
career path like I don't know it's it's
kind of hard to explain like I was
always it's in hindsight it's super
obvious but at the time like I remember
telling my mom that I wanted to be a
software engineer and she was like what
like that doesn't sound like you um but
but no it was really cool and uh yeah I
had a Craigslist ad for like just like
virus removal computer repair and I
probably had a 50% success rate at this
anyway but it was a good it was cool I
mean it paid pretty good um and I would
just like go to people's houses and you
know fix their computer that they
screwed up and nothing crazy um and yeah
I started learning about Comer
development online through websites like
code academy and Udacity um which is
which are awesome I think it's so cool
that like I think really the open source
software movement inspired a lot of like
the open academic content that's out
there and uh got a email from uh Max who
was the founder of got to getac cow.com
which was like a localized White Pages
for more of like a rural town in Ohio as
I was in Cleveland at the time and he's
like hey can you work on websites and I
was like sure I'll work on websites and
I had you know very minimal experience
doing anything like that but I knew it's
what I wanted to do so that was my first
paying client as a developer um and it
was a PHP website um and I was in school
at the time I was was working all these
jobs to like get by but I knew that
there was so much more potential in
software development so and I was just
so burnt out and I was like barely
sleeping and uh I was going to this
community college and it was like my
second year and uh during winter break I
was like all right like I physically
can't sustain this like I don't sleep
I'm like working on my computer until I
pass out at night I have three part-time
jobs I'm trying to go to school and like
get grades so I can get like grants and
scholarships and like continue my
education uh and I was like I'm going to
get a job as a programmer like during
this during this break between semesters
um so I did you know I had a couple I
quit all my part-time jobs and I was
like okay I got like 45 days worth of
money basically and if I don't figure
this out like I'm screwed I won't be
able to pay my rent and uh yeah I ended
up just talking to everybody I could
meet about software development I ended
up in a meeting uh with a Payment
Processing Company and the meeting
started as like oh I build websites I'm
like a freelance web developer I'll put
your payment Gateway on my client's
websites or whatever but I looked at the
company I saw that they were hiring
software Engineers so I asked their CTO
to hire me um and yeah that was my first
that was my first job as a programmer
and you know it was pretty cool and you
know that all happened mostly through
meetups and through going to like
programmer events and just telling
people like I have technical skills and
I'm looking for work so I think like
getting plugged into like local
programmer communities or meeting
developers that are further along in
their career is so important because
that's how it happened for me I didn't
get like I've never applied for a job in
the indust
stre man that that's such a cool story
um and it just showcases like if you
have your back against the wall you know
you can really punch punch your way up
in this industry and I'm a huge
proponent as well of local Meetup scenes
um 2019 and 2020 I was hosting uh a
Meetup a month for the Neo blockchain uh
because that's where I kind of cut my
teeth and and the ecosystem I work in
mostly so I love that you kind of built
this network and you just kind of grind
Ed your way until you found someone who
would say yes and so during this time
you're making all these conscious
efforts to uh take two steps back in
cutting you know all the part-time jobs
you had uh to keep you sustained so that
you could take maybe 10 steps forward is
this the time also when you're first
learning about I would assume it was
Bitcoin first um and kind of what Drew
you to want to work into the in the
space Oh well first of all was this the
time when you were discovering Bitcoin
or had you discovered Bitcoin before
yeah that that's pretty interesting I I
think at this time I I was rediscovering
Bitcoin as an engineer but my personal
relationship with Bitcoin began in high
school and um yeah I mean I was kind of
a kind of a troublemaker growing up and
one time like a friend of mine he was
like Hey I I heard about this website
where you can like buy weed on the
internet and then we W have to like go
to older dude's houses and hang out in
sketchy places just cuz we want to Get
High um and that founded pretty cool so
I uh I heard about Bitcoin through you
know those days and at the same time um
my you know it was like 2008 2009 and
you know my family and so many people in
my life were struggling as a result of
the economic recession and yeah I mean
it was just like a crazy time it was
like the unemployment issues like the
housing crisis there's uh really
impactful in my environment in Northeast
Ohio was like the opioid epidemic and
it's like you know rampant drug
addiction it was like super like gnarly
times and definitely like um a lot of
pressure to be growing up in and like
kind of like coming online as like an
adolescent um and so I discovered
Bitcoin and then I started reading uh
like online forums about Bitcoin and I
and got turned on to like the philosophy
behind it and I just thought it was the
coolest thing ever as like an angsty
teenager that all these like kind kind
of like super nerdy but super
intelligent people were like online
talking about building their own
Financial system and how it would be the
answer to like nothing like 200
happening again and that's a way more
nuanced conversation that I understood
at the time as like a 14 or 15year old
kid but it was it was so empowering to
read that and like felt like um yeah
like tapped into a collective in a way
that I hadn't um that was really cool
and when um I remember when the
government famously like shut down Silk
Road and uh you know arrested Ross and
because of my limited technical
understanding of Bitcoin at the time in
my head that meant that like Bitcoin was
over and so I didn't think about it
again for a few years and it was yes at
my first tech job and working in payment
processing and reading Hacker News every
day and I hear about a company called
coinbase and somebody called ethereum
and that's when I got like obsessed you
know was when I heard about ethereum
that was the thing for me that really
turned me on you know yeah that would
this would be yeah 2016 early probably
so yeah like the spring of 2016 I was
working as a software developer and I
was like really intrigued and like
learning more about financial technology
because that's just where my first job
was and I figured I would end up there
and then I saw not only that coinbase
existed and that there were like
companies and an actual I was like oh
Bitcoin this thing is still around and
it's like bigger than it was before and
then I read about ethereum and it was
like two things it was like and I loved
both of these Concepts the first was
like oh it's like I viewed it as Bitcoin
as a service like Bitcoin framework we
can apply this ideology the trustless
the transparency like the design way of
thinking as a you know decentralization
Enthusiast to anything which as as like
a budding developer who all I wanted to
do is write code I thought that was the
coolest thing ever and the other thing I
saw was it was basically like we're
going to rebuild a financial system
defined by JavaScript developers and I
thought that sounded so chaotic and cool
um so so yeah like both of those things
uh really turned me on to derium um and
then it was at my next job where I met
my co-founder Adam and he kind of took
me under his wing uh as like a person
and as a software developer and we
became friends over our shared interest
in cryptocurrency um he ended up
starting a Meetup uh and we like hosted
it together for quite some time and I
would really say that was like the
birthplace of decent was the community
events that he and I um managed so
that's pretty cool awesome yeah I love
that your kind of Awakening with open
source software was um through education
kind of going online and educating
yourself uh for me it was personally the
first time I used Napster um I
downloaded an album I wasn't allowed to
because my parents didn't want me to
listen to it and I was able to access it
anyways and that was the first time that
like a peer-to-peer
decentralized open network empowered me
and during um Occupy Wall Street as a
result of the financial crisis that's
kind of the first time Bitcoin came on
my radar uh but came and went you know I
did I I read about it didn't really dig
in and and that was that until 2017 so
um I'm curious to kind of as we delve
into the work that you do how you work
how your team operates I do want to uh
scrape a little bit of philosophy and
just hear um your perspectives on how we
can um increase or learn to adapt to the
levels of privacy that are currently
available on open-source transparent
blockchain networks where transactions
can be tracked and followed what are
your perspectives on privacy and is that
something that is of utmost importance
at this point in blockchain's life cycle
totally well well privacy is super
important and I think I just want to
call out it's cool I I like noticing
that like technology basically gives the
oppressed the upper hand in any
circumstance where the technolog is
available to both parties so so you know
in your case you're being you know
culturally oppressed by your parent
right which everyone's experienced that
so it's cool that you were able to use
technical prowess to you know circumvent
those unnecessary regulations and and
yeah for me it was uh my introduction to
open source software was through ART you
know I I I found my interest in
computers growing up was much more of a
creative thing like through ART and
music and that eventually just evolved
into software development because I had
to get with it and um I found it
fascinating that like okay so you could
download like a ke gen with like the
drum and bass playing in the background
and get like cracked Photoshop from you
know pyate bay or whatever or you could
download which was like the open
source and free alternative to photoshop
and I'm like whoa like these are the two
paradigms of like cyppher punks
basically it's like get together and
build our own Universe AA or like
defy the laws of the universe all ke Jun
and the Pirate Bay and Napster right so
um I thought that that was super
inspiring and like I think a good blend
of those perspectives is like a healthy
hacker mindset um but but yeah in terms
of privacy and crypto I mean it's really
interesting like yeah I mean the
proposal was basically like oh you know
Banks can't be trusted because they're
human custodians of capital and their
incentives are misaligned with their
constituents so uh we're going to build
this like trustless transparency so
everyone can be their own bank and I
really dig that like for me personally
like I'm a I'm so bullish on bitcoin and
ethereum and and trust my life savings
on those blockchains right and they have
for a very long time um and you know
like falling in love with that ideology
and design ethos behind Bitcoin some of
which is pretty gnarly like people will
always like act in their own
self-interest like I don't necessarily
agree with that on a fundamental level
um but it's a very like hyper rational
doggy dog um traitor mentality right
where like opportunity
opportunity isn't really like an ethical
question um and so that's like really
intense and I think taking that and like
looking at it positively and then trying
to shoehorn in everything is a lot of
what's been done in crypto to date so
like I for example know people who
dislike ethereum because you can build
smart contracts that are totally
permissioned and administrated that does
not resemble how an layer one blockchain
works um and like generally those people
are incapable of like determining the
difference between like smart contract
designed to reflect those principles and
fundamentals versus one that like isn't
right so like there's like a lot of
nuance that can be solved with education
here um but my favorite example of this
would be like Dows where we try to
shoehorn just like total
decentralization into how to get things
done which is what businesses are for
basically um and like it didn't work
very well and so I saw like this kind of
like hyper capitalist structures that
are being built that are kind of like
don't really work in practice and then
you also have the funny thing that I've
seen which is like the real like
governance nerds in in crypto are like
applying like 500 400 300 year old like
systems that like have already failed
humanity and they're like so it's like
there's a lot of people in the space
with like the ego of like oh like we're
like innovating and like building
something new and like something really
exciting and it's like really as a space
we like aren't caught up to like the
rest of the world yet right like we have
a lot to do so um anyway that's that's
like exciting like why I bring that up
when it comes to privacy is um one of
the things that I heard when I first got
into crypto was a bunch of big companies
and institutions saying we can't use
ethereum for example because we can't
have all of our data to be publicly
visible to the world because that
doesn't work for our business and I was
one of the many people who are basically
like we know better just give up your
way of doing things and do it our way
because it's like cool and it makes
sense because the toi said so um and
then fast forward to present day and
it's like our whole industry is
struggling to have enough of an audience
and like customer base to actually
sustain itself and like pay for people
to like live and continue working on
this stuff um outside of like pretty
unethical business models that I don't
agree with or participate in in our
industry um so now I'm viewing the the
the Privacy issue as okay we've had this
totally open trustless transparent
system design thinking in crypto as a
result we have data issues all across
the board and privacy issues all across
the board that need to be solved they
need to be solved very care Y in a way
that doesn't degrade the security uh of
the types of applications that we're
working with in in the the crypto space
um but a decent what I see is like large
companies and institutions are unable to
adopt the technology because they don't
have privacy features and permission
features that protect an organization of
that size and so we want to build
privacy Tech that's open and freely
available to everyone but that we are
catering and selling to these you know
large institutions that we all want to
participate in our ecosystem uh so
that's kind of where my head's at with
it today interesting and it's funny that
you kind of uh rag on Dows a little bit
because you guys are building uh a
product a dow product um which is ties
into a lot of what you also brought up
so the three products that uh decent is
working on is Lumen a defi lending
product fractal a dow governance portal
and sarcophagus dead man switch and I
would like to talk about all three of
these individually uh but before we do
maybe we can just kind of get uh an
elevator pitch from you on what decent
Dow is and um maybe how as a venture
Studio you guys might differ from an
equivalent entity in web to or
traditional development definitely yeah
so um Builder Builder Collective is the
phrase that I'm trying to throw out
there to describe us now CU we are
structured a little bit differently from
Adventure Studio our goal isn't we're
not like a financial entity that's like
investing in new projects with the goal
of spitting them out or making them
investable um by VCS which like is the
traditional vetro Studio model um we're
like a collectively owned Product
Company so like we're building a suite
of institutional def5 focused privacy
tools um such as fractal such as Lumin
um and and sarcophagus um that kind of
like follow this thesis that like
privacy missing and the try is
preventing like real adoption of the
technology and some sense of abstraction
between the blockchains and smart
contracts and the end user is preventing
that adoption um privacy is was most
important to the people at descent
institutional def5 is a market that we
know has that need cares about it and
willing to pay for it um and that we
like believe in and think I mean talk
about like replacing the banking system
I mean fi has like the strongest chance
of doing that out of anything else
that's come out of our space it's not
going to be a bunch of like L1 tokens
like fighting for retail liquidity um
that like make an impact in the world so
I'm really excited when I meet the
people in def5 especially the people who
come from banking backgrounds and like
know how to do it because like I'm a
humble Builder I'm not like an economist
or you know Financial engineer or
someone who's like thinking about these
systems on that level um but we can like
get them built and make them work really
well which is sweet um but yeah so makes
a lot of sense for us to build in that
in that thesis of like privacy for
institutional
um and then it's owned through our token
and governed through our token so like
what products we build how much funding
they receive to continue existing um you
know cultural decisions how we operate
as an organization uh who our leadership
is those are all things that are going
to be managed over time more and more
through decentralized governance and
voting um but this is why I you know I I
I'm more so ragging on us more than any
other Dow it's like getting there has
been really hard because we had a
5-year-old company at the time now
almost seven years old and everybody has
salaries health insurance Comfort
security a way of doing things that
we're all used to and then I'm kind of
showing up and saying like hey it's
going to take years but if we change
from this structure into this structure
we're all going to own it together I
won't be like able to like take away
your Equity or dilutely dilute you or
any of the other shitty things that I
can totally do as a CEO of a company in
the United States well be on like a
Level Playing Field in terms of
ownership and representation and what
that means and like we can effectively
open source a business and I got really
excited about that and I still am but
over the last year and a half I've
figured out just like how naive my
understanding of uh not just running a
business but just human beings in
general uh really was and just one
example is this like most Dows and DOW
thinking is designed as like a market
place where let's say in our case
developers and designers just show up
and they're like really good at what
they do and to get onboarded to the
projects that we have and it's just like
very like efficient thing that's
happening and like human organizations
don't function that way at all they're
so complicated and like every
interaction I have with somebody that I
work with requires tact and focus and
Nuance that doesn't exist at this point
in smart contracts so it's been like a
pretty crazy journey to figure out what
aspects of the organization will benefit
from being open transparent publicly
visible uh being open transparent and
visible to a core team requires you know
Universal consensus sometimes Universal
consensus is bad that's why we have like
decision makers in society like judges
and CEOs who can just be like all right
moving on like you know um so yeah it's
it's been a crazy ride but I think we're
now getting to the point where like
we're running as efficiently on chain
that we did offchain which is cool and
and we've been doing all of our money on
chain for like a year and a half now I
mean even our raids we did on chain we
haven't like we we don't pay people from
a bank account you know know um we're
like pretty awesome about that stuff and
now we're working on uh token gating uh
information and like institutional
knowledge and content like project stuff
so that it's a little more fluid and
then the goal is to start to make it a
little more like people can just
participate by having a token or by
going through some like vetting and
invitation process not through like a
traditional hiring process like at a uh
yeah I mean it's interesting that you
highlight kind of the recurring theme
that I hear with the biggest issues with
d and that is the social layer you know
dealing with people and how do we
leverage the technology to do that the
only other company I have with a mental
framework for uh decentralizing from a
corporate model to a dow is shapeshift
and they also do something very similar
where a lot of well their whole treasury
is completely onchain the way they
distribute funding is on a quarterly
basis through project proposals and I
noticed that um you guys also have some
semblance of that right now whereas
quarterly funding is approved and you
guys put to what I assume to be the vote
but I am just garnering that it's mostly
Your Inner Circle that holds the voting
tokens right now um you guys put forth
the quarterly proposals for where you're
going to put your your time and uh
Financial Resources so what what does
that look like how do folks um get these
dcnt tokens or earn the ability to
partake in the direction for where you
guys want to take decent Dow on a
quarterly basis definitely yeah so I
mean the first when we launched and it
was pretty fascinating because you know
we're trying to get everybody who is
Ever basically like directly helpful to
our company involved right um so at
launch the tokens were distributed
amongst Founders uh all contributors
through from you know the last you know
7 years or so of decent history that are
still active or were vested in the
company at the time that they left um
our formal advisors a bunch of informal
advisers that were people that had
helped so much over the years and like
just deserved to be a part of this um so
like all these people who were like a
part of decent for all these years
received tokens when we deployed our
token a few weeks ago um they're all
locked for the time being uh so there's
no like liquid tokens available um in
the market um that's not our priority
right now it's we want to build awesome
products and get like the right people
to have ownership in them and um yeah in
terms of like how tokens will be
distributed over time I mean it'll
definitely start with like earning like
I think the first people who receive
tokens out of our treasury outside of
the people who've already receed them
are going to be contributors that are
coming on to the Dow and participating
um in some way so yeah I mean
meritocracy is a word that I got really
attracted to when I started learning
about cryptocurrency and this idea that
like people actually are like rewarded
fairly for what they put into something
um and for me as someone who's
entrepreneurial that's always been not
just a financial interest but like a
interest of creative control and
ownership um in the work that I do and
in the direction of the work that I do
so my goal is to reward contribution
with ownership um and hopefully if we do
that my thesis is that will attract the
best Builders because I think the best
Builders are passionate and feel a sense
of ownership over the work that they do
and it's important to them on a deep
level um and that's kind of how we'll
have like an edge and maintain our Edge
as like technical experts in the space
absolutely how do you how have you
historically gone about getting
connected with Builders and new Builders
is it through hackathons is it through
word of mouth is it through forums is it
through gitcoin what has uh decent's
approach been to
um expanding its network of
Builders yeah uh everything over the I
mean we've done we've done all of those
things and more you know um yeah we
definitely we're not like a b2c product
like like a wallet or an exchange where
like someone might have actually like
heard about us at the Thanksgiving
dinner table um so for decent it's kind
of like being known amongst the right
people in the industry actually you
brought up shapeshift earlier I mean
that's a great example like I love that
company so much and like I know so many
people from there um we we've had people
on our team who worked at shap ship
previously we worked on projects for
shape shift in the past um and that's
just one great example of like how far
ethos takes you uh in an industry
especially when it's like devoid of
values like Eric and shapeshift as a
brand have stood for a lot of the
principles that attracted me to
cryptocurrency in the first place and
also like shapeshift really inspired um
I think so with my confidence in like
getting into crypto uh professionally
cuz I was really like H like I don't
know if this is going to can out as an
industry and when I saw what shape
shifts had done I was really I guess
just impressed and it was kind of like a
proven case for like Bitcoin really
being open and decentralized and you
know something that's going to permeate
as a result um but yeah so I think like
just being really clear about like why
we're here in all of those settings has
allowed us to attract I think the right
people uh and retain the right people
because the people had decent like
really love it you know yeah shout out
to shapeshift um that was the first
non-custodial exchange I ever used and
when I swapped my ethereum for another
token it was kind of that aha moment the
first time I used Napster and it was a
completely freeing and new feeling to be
able to participate with these
permissionless open source networks and
be able to move assets and value between
them and in a way that I'd never even
thought of before uh it was a total
eye-opening moment um which is another
kind of interesting line I want to pull
on and that is um how are you guys
evaluating which networks to build on
top of like where does the the dcnt
token live and what what blockchain
network are you guys uh building on
mostly and if it's not just one what are
the metrics you take when evaluating uh
a new network to build on totally yeah
so this is an area again where this is
an area where time has humbled me into
being more open-minded similarly to you
know shoehorning like decentralization
maximalism into everything that I do um
so desent has always built on ethereum
like every project we've ever done was
on the ethereum blockchain we've come
close to building projects on other
blockchains and for one reason or
another over the years and never felt
right as a company to make an investment
to create the level of expertise we have
in the evm universe elsewhere and never
felt like it was a worthwhile investment
for us to take grant money from a layer
one that was trying to attract Builders
or develop Financial applications since
that's what we've always been interested
in at decent on a network that I
wouldn't personally like hold my life
savings in and there's only two
blockchains that I personally am like
comfortable literally holding my life
savings on
um that being said like I want to like I
I I understand that like blockchains
like salana have good reasons for
existing and have a lot more activity
and excitement and adoption than I would
say all chains have in the past um and
so I think today like d is more open and
receptive to building on networks where
institutional Finance is going to live
and where like the future of D5 is going
to live um but right now now that's
still primarily ethereum and so that's
where we devote our energy and our time
and attention to so it would take like a
lot of demand and interest and the right
opportunity for us to you know give
energy elsewhere but right now ethereum
mainnet is where the decent token lives
and our all of our applications are
deployed to ethereum inet and uh tests
you you've mentioned um institutional
defi a couple times in our conversation
and one of the reasons why I've really
enjoyed being the host of this podcast
over the years particularly during the
bare Market is a lot of our guests would
be third parties building for uh
traditional financial institutions Andor
Enterprise um and basically like the
building's been going on behind the
scenes since uh 2018 2019 even though
you're not going to hear like JP Morgan
Chase come out in the open and say that
they've been working on their own
blockchain network for for two and a
half three plus years
so what are the sort of relationships
that you guys have established with
these kind of traditional financial
institutions Andor Enterprise level
entities that have been more than just
dipping the toes into blockchain but
actually actively building here uh if
not quiet quietly and silently behind
the scenes and what does the sort of
products and solutions that desent
builds um for these types of clients or
customers what do they look like yeah
this is really this is a great question
because it can kind of help explain like
where I see our roles as technologists
and builders in this because this is a
very complex space like even the design
of Bitcoin required not only an
understanding of technology to like a
very impressive degree um or at least to
a very I think the design of Bitcoin is
uh simple enough to be like very genius
right and the same thing can be said
about the understanding of like just
human behavior and economics attached to
that same system um and so if we're
looking at like D5 for example um well
we're looking at two really hard
problems we have a technical issue uh on
one side which is like building smart
contract applications that are very
complicated and you know amassing things
like liquidity as a flywheel to like
power a system like that and even then
liquidity not not a pure technical issue
it's like you have to design a system
that works that way but then you have to
actually you know get the human beings
involved and get the capital involved in
the system so basically we have this
whole wealth of problems to solv for D5
to really like exist and to be taken
seriously in the market place and I am
truly like want and working towards and
my goal for our industry is that for a
regular individual person they trust a
smart contract more than Chase B right
so like that is that is the big picture
and how I see us getting there today is
not with people like me like designing
what those financial tools and systems
look like because luckily there are
people who are very passionate and
Brilliant and excited about finance and
economics who have are taking those
risks and are really like the pioneers
of this technology and their industry so
like two names come to mind that are
really inspiring to me that have given
me some like advice and guidance
Direction belief on my journey would be
like Ari Paul from block power capital
and Sydney Powell from Maple Finance so
this is like two founders of two very
different organizations one is you know
a massive uh investment firm which is
like looking at block tower and the very
short list of funds that I would say are
operating at their caliber in our space
um when I started decent I had like
nothing to lose I was just like creating
my career in technology to see somebody
with like a really impressive Financial
pedigree in an industry where you know
appearance and standards are so value to
people take that leap into crypto you
know those people who started those
funds and have been doing that um and
building the industry by a massing cap
that translates to new Ventures and new
innovation in the development of our
space I find that very inspiring and and
bold and courageous um and looking at
Maple and I bring that company up
because I just think the the brand and
the trust and integrity in their brand
has been really impressive over the
years um and the their commitment to
open source technology and transparency
has been very impressive over the years
um and that's an Institutional lending
platform so like on both sides of this
we're looking at people who are not like
me uh and have a very different skill
set very different mindset and are doing
a very important job of like bringing
the institutions to the space trusting
the technology looking for the exposure
and again they're they're funding this
kind of stuff uh continuing to happen on
like The Innovation kind of ground for
um so decent rle in that right I I'm not
the one who's going to like get chy with
you know JP Morgan and like broker deal
with them or or like cosign anybody
building their own private Network um
but what I can do is solve some like
really hard technical problems and what
what we can do at decent I'm not solving
those problems myself these days um it
is solved some really hard technical
problems to allow those Pioneers you
know who are bringing this technology to
institutions to like actually deliver
right and so that's what decent's all
about decent is all about like looking
at those financial Pioneers who are like
redesigning how things like lending and
credit and you know I mean governance of
organizations I mean that's what Dows
are doing they're like restructuring how
like ownership in companies works that's
mind-boggling um you know custody and
problems to do with like holding digital
assets uh in an Institutional
environment where like liability is such
a complicated and nuanced issue to
tackle like these are all things that we
want to solve at decent for those people
um so I really view us as like yeah
humbly supporting people who are
bringing you know the institutions to
the table and like why does that matter
to me I don't like wake up and get out
of bed in the morning because I want
like massive Cal players to join the
industry because that's the point it
will make a lot of money it's because I
view that as the only option for us to
actually get this stuff like elevated so
that it can be looked at alongside like
Sofi or Lending Club as options for the
average Joe right um so I'm really
excited about that I want that to happen
awesome yeah uh Sid is actually a guest
was a former guest on the show to talk
about Maple so it's really cool to hear
you highlight why you think the the team
and the projects is is um really a
critical factor in bridging kind of uh
traditional and and decentralized uh
Financial sectors institutions markets
whatever you want to call it um so you
really highlighted that desent is
providing the Firepower of the thinkers
and the builders and the doers and one
of what I took in the research that I
did uh one of the products that I think
your team is building to help Provide
support for the these Bridges is Lumen
which to me seems like an identity
verification service so could you talk a
little bit about uh the role that Lumen
is providing in the defi lending space
absolutely and I love talking about our
products uh so Lumen is a second Venture
coming out of decent Dow and it's a
fascinating product um our goal is to
build something in the credit space in
Defi and of course I mean just to
imagine where this began and how much
soul searching and Discovery has
occurred as a result of this product
development um you know originally our
goal was to build a credit product so
like we wanted to build like some sort
of consumer credit part products powered
by di5 and basically what our team
Learned was what I had just expressed
which is like you know credit has
existed for thousands of years like our
our team of like software developers is
not going to be the people who like come
up with like the AHA new innovation and
this like ancient human tradition of
like lending money and taking interest
on it um so we're not going to like
redesign that you know what else can we
build for this space and we discovered
something really interesting so in the
defi lending space uh specifically on
like the institutional side where it's a
little like less Anonymous and more
known and also the stakes are quite high
for participants uh due to the
competitive nature of that market like
you have borrowers who are typically
borrowing Capital uh to use to fund
their own Financial operations so maybe
they're like a crypto head fund or
trading firm right and um you know
they're they're borrowing capital and
they're doing so hopefully using their
like onchain activity and their onchain
assets as a means of you know drisking
that loan to A lender but all of a
sudden we're in this like really tricky
place because well if all of my trades
and all my assets and all of my ethereum
addresses are all like doxed and known
to be mine then now in order to get a
loan I'm trusting that this borrower or
sorry that this lender uh isn't going to
reveal that information to all of my
competitors which by the way they're
also doing business with right so like
that's like a really difficult position
and as a result uh most lenders sorry
most borrowers that we've spoken to in
the space are more interested in privacy
than they are at getting good lending
rates so they pay more for Capital to
reveal less about themselves and avoid
that risk and so what Lumen offers is
using some of the novel privacy
technology that's been developed out of
necessity in web 3 we can use a
confidential compute system so that
people can go through uh this process of
due diligence and proving say that they
have a balance of overx uh on their
ethereum addresses uh proving that those
assets are maybe in like the top 100
market cap and not just like crazy meme
coins that people are like trading
degenerately that like a borrower you
know shouldn't if they're you know
lending capital from an institution um
and yeah it's a really uh it's a really
cool thing that like you can go through
that process and like verify those
things are true about yourself as a
borrower without saying this is my
ethereum address right so that that's
basically Lumen U it's like a private
yeah it preserves privacy where it's
very important to um but allows
borrowers to reveal things about
themselves so as a result you know we're
launching this with one of the major uh
defi lending protocols that exist um
it's super exciting it's there's a lot
of demand for it and with our very first
uh lending pool that's powered by Lumen
you know they'll be offering a lower
interest rate that has ever been
possible before on the platform so it's
really cool are these sort of um the the
technical words you just used to
describe the Privacy features you guys
are leveraging um as a result of just
open source web 3 blockchain code are
these the same types of uh privacy
enhancing features that you're um
integrating into fractal which is a dow
governance portal yeah very similar
right so it it basically our team has
developed an expertise across like
different flavors of privacy protect
preserving technology that exists uh in
the web 3 landscape so like ZK and
confidential compute are two that are
like talked about and discussed a lot
today um I think for fractal we're
actually using ZK for the voting
mechanism because that's what made sense
fractal is also a smart contract based
application on the ethereum network
whereas Lumen is like just a traditional
web application that analyzes data on
the ethereum network so those are like
two pretty critical distinctions there
um so in the case of fractal I believe
that like the ZK tooling that our team
is interested in is like easier to
integrate with the application that's
built out of smart contracts maybe don't
quote me on this it's been a while since
I've written any code but what's
exciting is we're taking the same like
design principle and and applying it in
fractal so with Lumen it was like we're
going to go to the institutional lending
space who that's a part of defi that we
know is going to be around in the future
we believe in it we want to support them
and we're going to solve their privacy
issue and their privacy issue is safe
due diligence right we go to Dows and
similarly I mean there's a lot of cool
Dows but I'm really interested in D5
protocols that are governed by Dows uh
because again like that's where the
impact that's important to me is getting
made and that's where I think a market
exists that's sustainable and is going
to be around that's where there's a lot
of smart and professional people who are
like doing the right thing every day
they're not on Twitter like fleecing
people and scamming people right so this
is where I want to live right and uh and
and we're looking at the Dow governance
space and there's something that dent
has had in common that we found out
about other Dows uh contributors don't
want all of their money that they get
paid to be public knowledge that anyone
can look at that's pretty uncomfortable
not great for the psychological safety
of a contributor and two uh it is not
healthy for everyone to opt in by
default to publishing what they voted
for like if you want to wear an I voted
sticker and a T-shirt and tell everybody
in your town like who you voted for that
day that's totally cool everyone's
allowed to do that but forcing everyone
to do that is super unhealthy so what
we're looking at for fractal is how do
we solve those two problems and say how
do we protect people's privacy
throughout governance processes so that
we can still trust that on chain we came
to this consensus we made these
decisions we know that the votes are
valid without saying Parker voted for x
and Adam voted for y um imagine if your
was very loudly outspoken in favor of a
proposal and you are not how unsafe
would that feel it's like are you going
to vote honestly I mean even if you do
it's going to take a great deal of
anxiety to do so so that's super
uncomfortable um and then similarly yeah
on like the payment side like how can we
you know we pay all of our contributors
on chain of course being like the person
designing the system and the founder of
the company I already knew what
everybody was making anyway so I didn't
even think that this would be an issue
but nobody really likes that like people
don't want their so how do we operate in
this world where the blockchain as a
necessity must be transparent all data
publicly visitable The Ledger
decentralized and distributed viewable
by any participant but not reveal that
detailed level of data that compromises
like the social fabric of trust between
people that are working together um so
that's really exciting for fractal to do
that yeah so fractal's being used or or
utilized for uh decent Dows
decision-making process but is the
service ultimately for anybody to yarn
up their own Dow and they can kind of
Leverage fractal for their own
governance purposes absolutely yeah so
we built it yeah eating our own dog food
we built it for decent D because there's
some governance complexity to funding
and building new projects and Staffing
them and resourcing them that we thought
having a custom framework would be good
for um but also because we're focused on
privacy technology and our conversations
with other uh organizations in the space
we learned that by making fractal like
the private governance framework um
that's a great way for us to like yeah
stay close stick to our guns on our
ethos and our Focus but also you know do
something pretty different that doesn't
exist yet in this in the space yeah and
then another project or product of yours
that I want to talk a little bit more
about is sarcophagus which is a a dead
man switch um I guess maybe let's just
start with why is a dead man switch
important and then further why is a
decentralized dead man switch even more
important definitely yeah well pych
cagus is super EX exciting because I
will say what's different about Saro to
these other projects you know fractal
and Lumen those are like decent Dow
projects that like we incubated
internally and built from the scratch uh
sarcophagus was an agency client of ours
that we just developed such an
incredible relationship with their team
uh their Founders and with the software
itself that de's been working on for
years and as a result we're you know
significant um owners of the sarcophagus
project but also just like yeah like
true long-term partners and you know
it's a project that playes blossom into
you know a much more synergistic
relationship between decent sarcophagus
than you know a typical agency client um
so best customer ever right and um yeah
I mean why is a dead man switch
important um I'm not the best person to
answer this question but I would say
like if we go back to applying this
pattern of like making it making these
systems work effectively in you know the
social Fabrics that already exist in
society um
and I think the answer in this case is
like yeah do I want to trust another
human being to carry out my will when I
die and you know a lot of people would
trust Bitcoin or ethereum or to do that
at this point so yeah it's just another
way to eliminate you know human
interference and fallibility from
something that's really important to
people have you guys had any uh
customers or clients that are uh lawyers
or any legal entities that have leverage
Saro for their estate planning processes
so that is that is kind of our push now
like we built it as a Deadman switch
primitive to be consumed by other
applications and uh Zach the founder now
is building um yeah basically like a
product front end for sarcophagus that
offis scates so that those people don't
even necessarily know that they're
interacting with applications like
ethereum and R weaves but rather uh more
of like a traditional experience which
is pretty
sweet cool kind of um wrap up and and
zooming out um I'm really happy to be
talking with somebody who's been
building here for this is now going on
your seventh year you've been building
since
2017 and when I first got into the
crypto space I thought for sure um that
we were going to have a lot more
mainstream adoption today and that there
was going to be a lot more just
blockchain Network usage um maybe even
as far as going as some of the early
Bitcoin Bulls stating that Bitcoin might
have even become a world currency by now
I'm not stating that that is should be
the case or should not but what I am
kind of painting the context for is what
are this is a double-sided question in
the years you've been in the space What
are you surprised that has been built
and is being used today and what are you
surprised has not been built and has not
been created that we're us that is um
enabled by blockchain a great question
whether am I surprised has been built
and is in used today I love that
question I mean for me what was really
surprising actually like across the
board is just like nfts not that they
exist because like they make perfect
sense from like a why would they would
exist standpoint and you know Concepts
like nfts have been around for a long
time but it's like how they manifested
in our society as such a like cultural
phenomenon was really fascinating to me
because like I'm not a part of that
aspect of the crypto industry his
whatsoever we we've looked at nfts as
like a technical implementation detail
but never as like the point of what
we're doing being like a collectible or
art of some format so um yeah like that
whole thing crazy to me um really
fascinating how it made like a social
and cultural element to crypto that felt
way more mainstream than like the people
who are into like the economics and
philosophy aspects that Drew like I
would say like the first class of crypto
people into the arena um and as far as
what am I surprised doesn't oh and as an
off stre of nfts that also just say like
meme coins that's the thing I probably
most surpris exists and it's actually
that people actually like care about is
the fact that Meme coins are a thing is
I'm like not I'm tapped out when I'm
done I work with decent so I don't have
time to like be a DJ and whatever um
with all the meme coins but it's
fascinating um what AM my surprise
doesn't exist yet I would say like an
adequate replacement for most banking
products for consumers it's pretty
shocking that like yeah we're not at a
point I mean I still get phone calls
from people who like lose all their
crypto and like bad stuff happens to
like we're not at a point yet where it's
like safer for like a regular person
with like average technical aptitude to
to use this stuff so yeah I'm pretty
surprised that we don't have like a full
stack like there should be like a medium
article it's like here's how to replace
all of your financial infrastructure as
an individual to be on chain and like
all those things actually like work very
well and make sense um but that's what I
hope that we're on the road to right now
well what did you think of that
conversation I really enjoyed learning
more about Parker's background and how
he self-started his career as a
developer and parlayed that into
co-founding and leading a blockchain
collective it was also really insightful
to hear his ethos on why him and his
team place a high value on building on
the ethereum network and within that
ecosystem and it was really interesting
to learn more about the products and
offerings that decent is building for
institutional defi partners and clients
to keep up to date with our show head
over to
www.smart economy podcast.com and if you
liked the guests that we've had on the
show please don't hesitate to rate US
and give us a review every rating and
review helps us get in front of more
people's eyes and ears so they can hear
the great guests that we've had on the
smart economy podcast and of course if
you are a neot toen holder please
consider voting for Neo news today as
your Council representative we've
proudly been serving the Neo ecosystem
since 2017 and we'll continue to do so
by putting portions of our Council
income directly back into ecosystem
growth initiatives with all that said
we're looking forward to catching you
next
time
yeah